# DSCI-100-Group-18-Project

Final project for UBC's DSCI 100 Fall 2021 Course.

In the world of sports, events are often separated into male and female events. Therefore, female and male statistics are not usually compared in one group. However, is this necessary for all sports? In this report, we aim to analyze this question through the lens of Tennis. For example, there are many outstanding female players on the professional tennis circuit. Serena Williams, notably, is one of the most decorated female tennis players of all time, with 23 Grand Slam singles titles (Serena Wiki, 2021). This leads to our question: How would Serena Williams rank amongst the top 500 male players? More specifically, can we predict how Serena Williams would rank amongst top male players using the metrics of height and number of seasons played as predictors? To answer this question, we will be using the dataset collected from https://www.ultimatetennisstatistics.com/, which contains various data on the top 500 professional male tennis players. Using this data, we will categorize players into different classes, based on their best career rank achieved. Those who have ranked in the top ten will be assigned the label "top". Those who have ranked between 11 and 40 will be assigned the label "great". All other players will be assigned the label "good". The end result of our analysis, therefore, will be to predict which class Serena Williams would fall into, based upon her height and number of seasons played as a professional.
